Now let's recap our initiative management process.
A portfolio is a collection of programs,
projects,
or operations managed as a group to achieve a strategic business purpose.
I want to reemphasize,
a portfolio is targeted or tied to one or more
strategic business goals or initiatives.
So you can't have a portfolio just hanging out there somewhere.
It must be tied to the initiatives.
So that is why we call the organization that is responsible for
managing and implementing the business strategies and
initiatives the Portfolio Management Office.
Here are the key concepts for initiative work management.
We learn the importance of initiative work management.
In fact,
89% of high performing organizations use portfolio management
as a means to support their initiatives.
We learn the importance of the PMO, the Portfolio Management Office.
That it is critical to establish an organizational structure,
the PMO,
that acts as the initiative processor and the stewards of
the company's strategic investments.
We discussed the goal of having governance,
and that it is to enhance the prosperity and viability of the organization,
which includes maximizing investment value.
I showed you an example of a portfolio management workflow,
showing how we engage senior management identify business initiatives,
and create our portfolio of initiatives,
programs and projects to support the company's long term strategies.
Designing portfolios.
In this course, I have shown that a portfolio is a collection of programs,
operations, and projects in support of one or more initiatives.
But out in the real world,
the term portfolio may contain different components towards lesser goals.
How program support portfolio outcomes?
Well,
programs exist in order to focus resources that will enable
broader business benefits and objectives.
An example of an organizational structure of a program was shown as well.
Lastly, keep it lean.
This does not need to be nor should it be bureaucratic at all.
Why are programs important?
Well,
programs exist in order to focus resources that will enable
broader business benefits and objectives.
Programs have a broader reach and much broader
impact than a project on a business, and therefore,
that is why I'm emphasizing that more high level business benefits can be realized.